Aotearoa, kaitiakitanga, mana whenua.
you
uh just a note while you're taking your seat to the officials that are sitting in the back, if you have anything to speak to please come to the table, you're more than welcome but we can't hear anything that you say from the seats in terms of the recording.
Okay. Welcome. We have half an hour with you for our review briefing. We'll have questions
from the floor. If you wanted to do a brief introduction, that would be wonderful. But
if you could take that to a couple of minutes, that would be great. And then we'll get into
questions. Thank you.
Thank you, Chair. Good afternoon. My name is Tony Gray, Board Chair of Education New
Zealand, Malapur, Keetelal. I'll make some opening remarks and then hand over to
ENZ, Acting Chief Executive, Doctor Linda Sissons. Education New Zealand's role is to
promote New Zealand as one of the world's most trusted and transformative
education destinations where learners thrive, communities benefit, and with
the government's international education going for growth plan ensure that
international education is a defining force in a prosperous connected
to our education. New Zealand sees the opportunity now as not recovery. It is
intentional education growth and discipline where ENZ role becomes
increasingly central as a system enabler of one of New Zealand's most important
export sectors. We believe based on the 2024-25 annual review evidence and
progress already made in the last 12 months that the momentum is real. The
sector is trusted and the platform for measured growth is credible.
International education, as you know, supports jobs and regional growth,
strengthens global connections and enriches classrooms and communities
across the country. And ENZ's work amplifies the value of
ministerial diplomatic and trade engagement with partner nations by
translating high-level relationships into practical education outcomes.
We achieve this by working closely with other New Zealand agencies and sector
partners. To support this work, the Education New Zealand Board
maintains strong oversight of governance, financial sustainability and risk
with a standard audit New Zealand opinion and focused agile operating
model aligned to fiscal constraints and the potential for effective
collaboration. On that hand over to Dr Sissons.
Thank you. Thank you to the select committee for the opportunity to provide some
supporting commentary to the points made by our chair. We're very pleased that we
were able to achieve 99% of New Zealand's forecasted 84,000 enrollments for the
2024-25 year and also that international education gained $4.6 billion of
export earnings well on the way to our 2034 goal of $7.2 billion.
77% of New Zealanders surveyed for their views on international students in 2025
said they wanted to see either the same number or more students coming to New Zealand
and 87% of our international students positively rated their New Zealand experience
with 43% of them saying that their experience was excellent, a rise of about 6%
of points from the previous year. However, the international education world is
moving fast and volatile manner and we're conscious of the need for New Zealand's
offering to evolve quickly and I'd just like to note quickly four specific
operational areas where Education New Zealand is looking to further enhance
our effectiveness and efficiency going forward. First of all our offshore presence is critical
and I'm very pleased that a fourth regional director this time for India will take up this
post in early June. Secondly as a small country New Zealand has to work hard to be visible
and even better seen in a positive light. So we're gratified that as a result of our
marketing New Zealand is now ranked in the top three of potential education destinations
of 22% of prospective international students and in terms of prompted awareness we're on a
par with countries like Germany and Singapore. Thirdly as the business of international
education becomes ever more competitive and complex we're investing seriously in
more sophisticated and timely research insights and intelligence for the sector and
NZing. And fourthly our go-to-market strategy for the past and coming years balances
continuing growth in well-established markets like China with accelerated growth in more
recent markets like Sri Lanka along with research into four emerging markets
which we do not have mistaken at the moment. So those are the four sort of areas that we're
developing and working very hard on now just to bring our comments up to date. Thank you.
Thank you very much. We have our first question from CalBates.
Thanks very much chair and thanks for the work that you've been doing. It's great to see some
clear targets around the numbers of certain enrollments from where we started this conversation
a couple of years ago. Just interested in the growth numbers compared to the awareness.
So the awareness between 2024 and 2034 is to increase by essentially 10%, 40% 44 but you want to
have a growth in student enrollments from 83,000 to 119 which is a 43% growth. Is the growth rate in
the awareness aggressive enough to deliver that actual conversion in enrollment numbers?
The way in which New Zealand shows up in the world is the factor of an enormous number of
different circumstances. Awareness by itself is simply do they know we exist and that is
in a country as small and physically remote as we are that is a difficult
nut to crack on the world stage. However, enrollment is itself the product of
a great deal of marketing and representation, government to government contacts and so on.
And I believe that the two are not necessarily a product of each other.
Okay. So these are your three primary objectives. Given what you've just said,
can you tell me as an organisation what you measure as your primary conversion metrics
or the things that you believe drive conversion and how you measure those?
Yeah. Conversion is driven essentially by the providers who are enrolling the students.
Their expression of interest, sometimes their lead that we provide to them from
the events that we run overseas becomes the first step on a process that turns into the conversion
into an enrollment. So in a sense, we have responsibility for two quite different processes.
However, they link together at the range of fairs and events that we are in charge of
setting up overseas. So it's a measure that belongs to the providers.
For us, I think we would assess its effectiveness in terms of the amount of knowledge that those
prospective students have before they make the decision to enroll and the
relevance of that knowledge. So whether or not they understand what it's like to be in New Zealand,
what it costs, whether there are pathways they can follow, say from secondary to tertiary.
So the quality of our data and our information is a factor in the speed and the effectiveness
of that conversion. So from a marketing perspective and the amount of money essentially invested
in your role, which is marketing New Zealand and really important, appreciate that,
what do you measure as the key success measures or the things that
turn the needle the most that the dollar we're giving you to market New Zealand
actually impacts the conversion that Massey University or Yukola Munganui or Auckland
University has of that student. I appreciate everything you're saying. I've been in marketing
all my life, but what I'm not understanding and haven't understood over the last couple of years
is what is the connection that your management team sit down around the table and say this number needs
to move in order for us to know we're actually having an impact. Okay, let me answer that in two
ways. One is the array of measures that you can see in our annual report, which include
leads, actual enrollments, proactive research of New Zealand, the brand preference and the brand
awareness. So there's a range of factors that demonstrate how effective that we are. The second
relates to the market by market plan that we devise in the course of planning for the year ahead
so that in the process, as you probably know, we have four types of markets that we are in.
They're markets where we know there is going to be growth and where we can calculate
how big that growth will be. There are markets that we maintain a presence in and maintain our
reputation and there are core markets where we have been for a while and have been successful
and believe that we should maintain that relationship. And there are emerging markets that we have not
entered into. For each of those, we devise a set of targets in terms of ultimate enrollments
based on a whole set of metrics from the GDP of the country itself, the population growth,
the art by mobility in turn on New Zealand. Sorry to interrupt. We have got very limited time and I
don't think this is answering the question that Carl has asked. So if you're not able to answer it
now, I wonder if you could come back to the committee with some more information. My understanding
of the question asked was what work are you doing as a management team to assess the work
that's actually turning the dial and seeing enrollments eventually? So if that's okay, we're
going to move on because we've got a lot of other questions. We certainly will come back,
but I think that I have answered it in the sense that all of those
markers are the things that we work on every day and assess every day. Okay. If I could ask it
in a different way and maybe our final goal at this, but if not then we'll... If you're okay,
Lawrence, we've got a long list of questions and we've got about 20 minutes left. So we're
going to go to Shannon and we'll come to you. Then it looks like Simon. We can do some cleanup
questions at the end. I think this is going to be one of those cases where we send follow-up
questions to get more detailed answers. So Shannon, help it. Thank you for the work that you're
doing. Obviously, across the tertiary sector we're increasingly reliant on international
students to buffer the overall sector and funding challenges that we have. And as you know,
markets can switch on and they can switch off. What are the risks that you have identified
in this period and or given advice to the minister on that could potentially close off markets
or that you have identified as risk areas and how have they been managed?
Well, there's a very current set of calculations are being taken right now with regards to risks around
fuel uncertainty, geopolitical uncertainty. And while as yet we do not believe they've affected
enrolments in New Zealand, it is something that is under weekly regard by us to make sure that we
are making sure that both the markets that we are seeking are not themselves affected by idea
political change, but also that they will be able to travel students from those countries.
The second area has to do with the kinds of risks that are things like political upheaval
in certain countries. Countries that are where fraud is a particularly rife. And in that regard,
we work very closely, particularly with Immigration New Zealand, who makes quite detailed risk
assessments of the countries to whom they're going to be asked to offer visas and other
agencies such as Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So there's a constant reviewing of the risk
profile of countries that we might be in and a quarterly review from our viewpoint of where
we are sitting in the world. Thank you. Some institutions have raised with me that through
government's funding changes, particularly in research, that the flow on effect of that will be
a reduction in rankings. Is that a risk to our international markets? Have you raised it?
Is it something on your radar? So could you just explain what is affecting that reduction?
Reduction of research funding overall will have implications for the research that they produce
and research informs our international rankings. Is that a risk that you have identified and
advised the minister on? It is not. And in fact, when I look at our universities,
their growth in international students, their recovery from COVID-19 has been
really remarkable. They're now back up to where they were in 2019. And their annual growth,
which currently is around 15%, is quite remarkable. I think they are also
starting to adjust their offerings such that they meet in the needs of the future in terms of
innovation, IT, the sorts of partnerships that we see in India at the moment, for example,
with IRT. So the answer is no, we're not seeing that at the moment. And I've got huge confidence
in the ability of our universities to meet their goals. Thank you. In terms of diversifying the
markets, I heard you say that it is volatile, but there's four key areas, other regions that you
are looking at. What are they? And then at the other end, I'm interested in the distribution of
enrollments between urban centres like Auckland and poly-tap areas like Napier that rely
on international students. Sure. Sorry, the first part was? The first one is what are the four
regions that you're looking at? The four countries are Nepal, Taiwan, Italy and France,
maybe four though, emerging at which we don't have either much or any presence at the moment.
And how are we going on Auckland and everywhere else? Well, Auckland is approximately 55% of the
international students are there. Second after them is Christchurch with around 11%. Third is Waikato
with around 7%. So between the three of them, that's over 70. And the rest are here scattered
all around New Zealand, but not in anything like such large concentrations. Are those target areas
for you? Small remote areas that have local polytechnics reliant on international
enrollment? We do believe that with the re-emergence of polytechnics as standalone institutions,
that there will be a move towards making a regional value proposition. And we'd certainly
welcome that because we do believe that every part of New Zealand is extremely attractive and
beautiful and has its own uniqueness. So we're looking forward to that.
Lawrence, can you do the next question from you? Thank you. I've got a few questions. Thank you
for coming. I'm going to start with, I know other people may have questions around the
Monarchy scholarship. My first question to you around Monarchy scholarship, maybe the only one
is, could you please talk us through on what happened with application for Monarchy scholarship
and why were there programs on there that never existed, what doesn't exist for universities?
When I do talk about Monarchy scholarships, I'm very conscious that it is funded by the foreign
affairs, Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So there's a limit to the amount of detail that I think
possibly appropriate for this select committee. They're always willing to be guided by the chair.
I'm referring to the funding and more to do with the application process, which sits with ENZ.
In the application process, most recently, people going in to apply for a particular course
and particular program that were on the list, those programs does not exist. So once they go
to the university, the universities that we cannot offer you an offer for this or a Monarchy scholar
or any sort of things from our end, because the program that you have applied from Monarchy
doesn't exist in our system. The Monarchy scholarships are translating to a single
portal and a single technological solution, which happens to be called animata,
which is being set up right now and which will enable a nationally consistent
engine for processing the applications for Monarchy scholarships. It is in the process of
being built and just a couple of months ago launched this year's intake for Monarchy scholarships.
Having a single national database of qualifications proved to be quite complex,
given the complex nature of programs at universities. Sometimes they are subsets of
one particular degree. Sometimes they have different names and I do admit that turning
that into a single national system with the help of New Zealand Qualifications Authority
turned out to be not adequate to the complexity of the way in which they are described within
the universities. That has very quickly been put right and we have seen so far 2,000 more
applications this year than last year. So we are satisfied that people are able to get
through the system and get to the qualification they want.
That's helpful. Just a few more questions. Thanks, Madam Chief. One of the things
that is within ENCS Remit is market insight. How are you looking at market insight compared to other
countries of similar jurisdictions, Australia, UK, US and Canada being specific areas in terms of
our growth international student growth strategy? But then coming up with that following what you
just said to my colleague, Shan Halbert, with Nepal being one of them. Nepal was a really interesting
case because Australia almost do not accept students from Nepal anymore because of
qualification concerns and among other things. Dan, are you looking at to ensure to address
some of the barriers that other countries are seeing in terms of certain jurisdictions they no
longer accept or have limited, allow for unlimited acceptance when it comes to the four key areas?
Yeah. Okay, starting with the insights. As we all know, New Zealand is a small country of
comparatively limited means. So within our budget for insights and research unit,
there is a finite amount of projects they can do. Nevertheless, the community, the international
education community around the world is one that shares many of the insights and the results that
they gain. So there's a great deal of exchange of knowledge that goes on. We both commission
research from established researchers around the world and we conduct some of our own,
in particular the student satisfaction survey. In terms of sharing with other countries about
markets that may not work out or may be on the margins, I'm very conscious that not only
Education New Zealand has its network of researchers that we work with, but also our other
agency such as Immigration New Zealand is also part of networks of immigration authority. So
there's a great deal of exchange about which countries have which problems and hopefully
how to solve them. That's also not something we track because offshore student visa agents
do not need to be registered with IAA. But anyway, that's all good. Thank you so much. My final question
is to do with English language schools. Now, as you will know that there's been a significant
drop in terms of the number, we have never bounced back to pre-COVID levels. In your report,
you mentioned the English language schools. I wondered if you're able to specify further
whether those English language schools are PDE specifically looking at English language or that
also include English language schools as attached to a university like EIA, for example,
because those offer mainly pathways into universities and IELTS and English proficiencies going to
university. What I'm not seeing is whether the numbers that you've got for people who come here,
maybe on a visitor visa, do of eight weeks, 12 weeks English language course as part of their
New Zealand experience and New Zealand exchange. Do you have any data specifically on that?
I believe that they are not counted in our IELTS. They're not counted when we talk about English
language schools. We talk about independent English language schools and I am not that
confident that we are able to track the numbers that come in through those other routes.
Next question from Simon Court. It's been waiting patiently.
So one of the things that really interests me about the Manaki program is the requirement to
immediately return to the student's country at the completion of the qualification. His
Education New Zealand received any feedback from students or their sponsors about whether that
is of benefit to the students or whether it may be more beneficial for them to get a couple of
years work experience in their field and in New Zealand's setting before returning to their home
country? First of all, in policy terms, this will be a Ministry of Foreign Affairs policy matter.
Secondly, there are a number of opportunities for internships that are provided under the
Manaki scheme that enable those scholars when they finish to do some work experience in New Zealand
before they return to their home. And the third thing is with the new national
enrolment system that we are setting up, a module of that will be about alumni and I think
that's going to be of huge benefit to New Zealand and to a wider set of countries
to find out what happens and to stay in touch with students after they graduate because we know that
many often go on to play leading roles in their countries and could well interact with New Zealand
in the future. So my question was, have you had any feedback from students or their sponsors
about this matter? I am not aware of any. Okay, thank you. Thanks, Chair. Part of marketing
and taking opportunity is responding to current events. What has Education New Zealand done in terms
of the opportunity with the signing of the free trade deal with India to capitalise on the New
Zealand name and focus on New Zealand and India right now? Yeah, thank you. And we're certainly very
thrilled to hear of the signing of the free trade agreement. Well, as I said right at the start,
we will for the first time add another regional director, which is an important step and that
new regional director is going to India at the beginning of June. The reason why that's important
is that regional directors have diplomatic status so that they're able to be part of the entire
New Zealand process as well as obviously adding a staff member into the Indian team.
In terms of the opportunities that the free trade agreement will bring,
when Minister Reti went to India in January, he signed a number of agreements around research
and scholarships, the launch of New Zealand Excellence Awards and the signing of a refreshed
education cooperation arrangement as well as 30 virtual internships for IIT Delhi students.
So this was, we realised that this was an important moment having as a senior minister go to Delhi
and we were very happy to put a whole raft of different opportunities around that.
Apart from that, I think that what will be particularly of value to New Zealand will be
the post-study work visa situation that comes with the free trade agreement so that students who
have done a New Zealand qualification will be able, if they have a bachelor or master's in a STEM
subject, be able to have extended post-study work rights and I think the sort of ongoing value to
New Zealand and to our own economy will be very enhanced by that and that as a marketing tool
for New Zealand is pretty important going forward. So yes, we're very very invested.
Thank you. If I can, the last minute, ask a quick question just back on your point about
English language schools. We have seen the track down, obviously the track up, every other
sector's bounced back pretty well. Do you see that there is even capacity as part of your 2034 target
for that part to bounce back for English language schools or do you see the capacity is going to
come from other parts like more into universities, more and so on etc. Where do you see that potential
in your goal for 2034 for growth? Yeah thank you and I didn't answer that part. I think there's
a wider picture here which is how English language is learned these days because it is often through
those other types of engagements and experience, New Zealand experience that English has learned.
There are many apps, there is much more English teaching in the country. Sorry to cut you short,
we're very tight for time. Can you just answer whether or not you see there being capacity
within English language schools in the future or whether you see the capacity being in
university schools etc. I don't have any evidence either way at this stage. If I was to make an
educated guess, certainly the English language schools are working hard on increasing their
numbers and they did go up 8% in the most current year that we're talking about. However I think
it will become much more varied and I would just finally say if I may that much English
is now being taught in countries so in Southeast Asian countries, kids are learning English there
and they're not coming completely fresh. Is there more capacity though in universities and schools
to help you reach that 2034 target? I will ask about that. I don't know if there will be. That
would be great. Thank you very much. Appreciate your time. Thank you. Sorry it feels rushed,
we had no chance to go over time so appreciate you making yourselves available. Thank you.